Drywall Mudding Service Page – Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park

Everyone loves having perfect walls. They are one of the essential parts of your home, and if they look ugly or old, they can make the entire room look terrible. Therefore, it is vital to invest in good taping and mudding drywall contractors who can help you achieve the home of your dreams.

That's what we do at Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park, a reliable drywall mudding company in Your are, so if you're interested in enjoying our services, please feel free to check out everything we can do for you.

What Is Drywall Mudding?

Drywall mudding consists of applying several coats of wet drywall compound to all the cracks and crevices of the wall. It is a pretty messy project, but it makes your walls look as neat as you want them to.

However, this mudding and taping must be done by specialists, as you need to have a particular skill level to make sure the cracks aren't noticeable anymore. Specialists are also able to determine, for example if fire taping drywall is recommended for your particular job.

Types of Drywall Mud

The two most common types of sheetrock mud are the following:

Premixed

Premixed compound is already mixed with water to be directly applied to the wall, but it can also be classified into several sub-types.

● All-purpose mud can be used in all projects, including taping drywall joints. The first step is to smooth it out on the wall and wait for it to dry.

● Topping mud is used to give a smooth finish to the final layer of the wall. It is then sanded and ready or paint.

● Lightweight all-purpose mud is like a combination of the previous two muds, as it can be used anywhere and gives you a beautifully smooth finish for painting on walls.

Powdered

Powered drywall mud is also called setting mud, and it is meant to be mixed with water to create the compound. This mud is supposed to dry faster and shrink less than premixed mud, and it is commonly used as a first layer to cover deeper gaps on the wall and for taping drywall ceilings. Moreover, you can find the following types of powdered mud.

● Timed drywall mud gives you a determined amount of time to work with before it dries, so you must be fast.

● Easy-to-sand setting mud prevents you from having to spend hours sanding and taping the drywall corners.

Drywall Mudding Prices

The cost to tape and mud drywall fluctuates a lot depending on several factors, such as the length of the wall, its previous conditions, the type of mudding we need to employ, and the size of the room. However, we feature competitive prices that are sure to fit any budget. If you want to know the cost per square foot to mud and tape drywall, please call us or fill out our online quote.

Bottom Line

Drywall mudding is an essential part of any construction, so you should invest in hiring the best drywall mudding contractors you can find.

Luckily for you, the Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park taping drywall contractors are here to help you achieve the walls of your dreams and find out the cost to tape and mud drywall.

Meta Description: Learn about Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park and our drywall mudding services. Don't miss out on our expertise and competitive prices.

drywall mudding
drywall compound
taping and mudding drywall
taping drywall
taping drywall corners
mudding and taping
cost to tape and mud drywall
fire taping drywall
taping drywall joints
sheetrock mud
taping drywall ceiling
cost per square foot to mud and tape drywall
drywall mudding contractor
drywall mudding company

one
two
three
four five

this is just a one test to see if two three can find four and five.

drywall framing

drywall studs

drywall steel stud

metal studs drywall

framed basement wall

framed basement

drywall door frame

framing and drywall

drywall drop ceiling framing

framing and drywall contractors

plasterboard frame

framing a ceiling for drywall

drywall and framing contractors

sheetrock framing

framing basement ceiling for drywall

back framing for drywall

drywall framer

metal stud framing companies

suspended drywall ceiling framing

replace door frame with drywall

metal stud contractors

basement framing and drywall

framing ductwork for drywall

drywall stud installation

framing for sheetrock ceiling

drywall partition framing

cost to frame and drywall a basement

drywall framing cost

Drywall Framing Service Page – Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park

Drywall framing is the first step of every drywall project, and it is crucial to ensure your walls stay strong and last for years. However, the framing and drywall process involves several steps that need to be appropriately executed by professional metal stud contractors.

Here at Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park, we have a team of professional drywall and framing contractors who are always ready to provide the best possible sheetrock framing service.

What Is Drywall Framing?

Sheetrock framing consists of preparing your wall for drywall to be installed. The frame must have specific dimensions according to the size of the drywall sheets. However, these sheets can also be customized to fit a particular wall's shape or a drywall drop ceiling framing.

The Steps to Frame Drywall

In order to properly frame your walls, drywall framers must follow these steps.

Drywall Stud Installation

The first step is to ensure the drywall studs and plates are correctly placed on the wall. All drywall steel studs (or wood studs) and plates must fit the standard measurements to make sure they can hold everything in place for a basement framing and drywall project, for example.

Framing Corners

Then, the plasterboard frame corners must be fastened into place with more studs with the flat side facing inward, as this is going to make the whole drywall partition framing much sturdier.

Closets and Framed Basements

Closets and framed basement walls usually need extra support, so you are going to need to add more vertical studs to the wall.

Bathtubs and Showers

Suppose you're installing metal studs for drywall in a bathroom. In that case, you're going to have to use water-resistant drywall, which needs extra studs to be kept in place, especially if you're going to place tiles on top of it.

Stud Blocking

Most traditional studs are going to be okay with horizontal blocking like if you're interested in framing ductwork for drywall. Horizontal blocking is meant to provide a stable surface for your screws to sink in your framing for sheetrock ceiling. However, if your room is larger than the standard drywall sheet measurements or you have a drywall door frame, you are going to need an extra horizontal block to add extra thickness. Moreover, it’s important to add enough blocking in all the seams, especially if you want to replace your door frame with drywall.

First Drywall Sheets Attached

Finally, you can attach your drywall sheets. However, we recommend you start with framing the basement ceiling for drywall, as this is going to create extra back framing for drywall for the vertical sheets and may make them last for a longer time.

Drywall Framing Costs

If you got this far, you're probably wondering “how much does it cost to frame and drywall a wall?” However, drywall framing costs usually depend on several factors. Therefore, please don't hesitate to call us.

You can even learn more about our services and the cost to frame and drywall a basement.

Bottom Line

Liberty Drywall of Sherwood Park is a reputable metal stud framing company. Our framing and drywall contractors are always available to tackle all kinds of projects, no matter how big or small. If you're interested in framing a ceiling for drywall or suspended drywall ceiling framing, please check out what we have to offer
